
------------------------------------------------------------------------
	COLD WAR
	'They know we know they know...'
------------------------------------------------------------------------


		«Être gouverné, c'est être gardé à vue, inspecté, 
		espionné, dirigé, légiféré, réglementé, parqué, 
		endoctriné, prêché, contrôlé, estimé, apprécié, 
		censuré, commandé, par des êtres qui n'ont ni le 
		titre, ni la science, ni la vertu... Être gouverné, 
		c'est être, à chaque opération, à chaque 
		transaction, à chaque mouvement, noté, enregistré, 
		recensé, tarifé, timbré, toisé, coté, cotisé, 
		patenté, licencié, autorisé, apostillé, admonesté, 
		empêché, réformé, redressé, corrigé. C'est, sous 
		prétexte d'utilité publique, et au nom de l'intérêt 
		général, être mis à contribution, exercé, 
		rançonné, exploité, monopolisé, concussionné, 
		pressuré, mystifié, volé ; puis, à la moindre 
		résistance, au premier mot de plainte, réprimé, 
		amendé, vilipendé, vexé, traqué, houspillé, 
		assommé, désarmé, garrotté, emprisonné, fusillé, 
		mitraillé, jugé, condamné, déporté, sacrifié, 
		vendu, trahi, et pour comble, joué, berné, outragé, 
		déshonoré. Voilà le gouvernement, voilà sa justice, 
		voilà sa morale!» 

		PIERRE JOSEPH PROUDHON - 1809/1865		



		«To be governed is to be watched, inspected, spied 
		upon, directed, law-driven, numbered, regulated, 
		enrolled, indoctrinated, preached at, controlled, 
		checked, estimated, valued, censured, commanded, by 
		creatures who have neither the right nor the wisdom nor 
		the virtue to do so. To be governed is to be at every 
		operation, at every transaction noted, registered, 
		counted, taxed, stamped, measured, numbered, assessed, 
		licensed, authorized, admonished, prevented, forbidden, 
		reformed, corrected, punished. It is, under pretext of 
		public utility, and in the name of the general interest, 
		to be place under contribution, drilled, fleeced, 
		exploited, monopolized, extorted from, squeezed, hoaxed, 
		robbed; then, at the slightest resistance, the first 
		word of complaint, to be repressed, fined, vilified, 
		harassed, hunted down, abused, clubbed, disarmed, bound, 
		choked, imprisoned, judged, condemned, shot, deported, 
		sacrificed, sold, betrayed; and to crown all, mocked, 
		ridiculed, derided, outraged, dishonored. That is 
		government; that is its justice; that is its 
		morality!». 

		PIERRE JOSEPH PROUDHON - 1809/1865		



------------------------------------------------------------------------
	BACKGROUND
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The name 'Cold War' was coined by the English writer George Orwell,
after the dropping of the first atomic bombs in 1945 had ushered in a
new world also foreseen by H.G. Wells.

It described a world where two major powers—each possessing nuclear
weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction—never
met in direct military combat. Instead, in their struggle for global
influence they engaged in ongoing psychological warfare and in regular
indirect confrontations through proxy wars.

Cycles of relative calm would be followed by high tension, which could
have led to world war. The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade
(1948–1949), the Korean War (1950–1953), the Suez Crisis (1956), the
Berlin Crisis of 1961, the Cuban missile crisis (1962), the Vietnam War
(1959–1975), the Yom Kippur War (1973), the Soviet war in Afghanistan
(1979–1989), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 (1983),
and the "Able Archer" NATO military exercises (1983).

The conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic
conventional force deployments, extensive aid to client states,
espionage, massive propaganda campaigns, conventional and nuclear arms
races, appeals to neutral nations, rivalry at sports events (in
particular the Olympics), and technological competitions such as the
Space Race.

The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in
the Third World countries of Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and
Southeast Asia. To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war, both
sides sought relief of political tensions through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased diplomatic, military, and
economic pressures on the Soviet Union, at a time when the communist
state was already suffering from economic stagnation.

In the mid-1980s, the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced
the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ("reorganization", 1987) and
glasnost ("openness", ca. 1985).

Pressures for national independence grew stronger in Eastern Europe,
especially Poland. They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev refused
to use Soviet troops to support the faltering government of East Germany
in late 1989. Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from
Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions (there was some violence in
Romania).

The pressures escalated inside the Soviet Union, where Communism fell
and the USSR was formally dissolved in late 1991. The United States
remained as the world's only superpower.

The Cold War and its events have left a significant legacy, and it is
often referred to in popular culture, especially in media featuring
themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.



DIVIDED GERMANY AND THE BERLIN WALL
-----------------------------------
In April 1945, the Soviets became the first Allied force to enter
Berlin. After Germany surrendered on May 8, the capital remained under
Soviet control for two months until a council led by four Allied powers
began governing in July. A plan for the joint occupation of Berlin had
first been proposed by the British in January 1944 and the details had
been slowly worked out at later meetings. At the Potsdam conference in
July 1945, the three Allies confirmed that the zones would be occupied
by Soviet Union (with eight districts), the United States (with six
districts), Great Britain (with four districts), and France (with two
districts).

Over the coming years, Berlin would become a lightning rod for
international Cold War tensions. The city lay entirely within the
agreed-upon Soviet sector of influence in Germany.

In 1947, the United States proposed the European Recovery Program, or
Marshall Plan, which aimed to improve European economies in part through
American aid. The three zones of Berlin controlled by the Western powers
agreed to use the same currency, but the Soviet Union refused to accept
the Marshall Plan, bemoaning “American economic imperialism.”

In response to what he viewed as an attempt to undermine Communist
control, Joseph Stalin authorized a land blockade of western Berlin,
which began on June 24, 1948. Unable to travel through Soviet-occupied
Germany to reach the city, the Western powers began supplying their
sectors by air. This stalemate persisted for nearly a year, with neither
side willing to back down.

At last, on May 12, 1949, the Soviets lifted the blockade after the
Western powers had increased deliveries each month of that year. In the
spring of 1949, Berlin’s western sectors merged to form a single
“trizone,” which had a separate government from Soviet-administered
East Berlin.

By 1961, around 2.5 million East Germans, attempting to escape poor
economic conditions and repressive policies, had fled to West Berlin,
despite preventative regulations. That year, the East Berlin government
began building a wall topped with barbed wire, dividing the two city
sectors.

The barrier was built slightly inside East Berlin or East German
territory to ensure that it did not encroach on West Berlin at any
point. Later, it was built up into the Wall proper, the first concrete
elements and large blocks being put in place on 17 August.

During the construction of the Wall, National People's Army (NVA) and
Combat Groups of the Working Class (KdA) soldiers stood in front of it
with orders to shoot anyone who attempted to defect.

Additionally, chain fences, walls, minefields and other obstacles were
installed along the length of East Germany's western border with West
Germany proper. A huge no man's land was cleared to provide a clear line
of fire at fleeing refugees.

This construction severely curtailed the emigration, although
many citizens still risked prison or death as they tried to reach the
West. By the time the barrier was removed on November 9, 1989, nearly
two hundred people had been killed while trying to make it past the
Berlin Wall.



ESPIONAGE AND INTELLIGENCE
--------------------------
Espionage is inherently clandestine, as it is taken for granted that it
is unwelcome and, in many cases illegal and punishable by law. It is a
subset of intelligence gathering, which otherwise may be conducted from
public sources and using perfectly legal and ethical means. It is
crucial to distinguish espionage from intelligence gathering, as the
latter does not necessarily involve espionage, but often collates
open-source information.

The Cold War involved intense espionage activity between the United
States and its allies and the Soviet Union and China and their allies,
particularly related to nuclear weapons secrets.

Different intelligence services value certain intelligence collection
techniques over others. The former Soviet Union, for example, preferred
human sources over research in open sources, while the United States has
tended to emphasize technological methods such as SIGINT and IMINT.

Both Soviet political (KGB) and military intelligence (GRU) officers
were judged by the number of agents they recruited.



TARGETS
-------
Espionage agents are usually trained experts in a specific targeted
field so they can differentiate mundane information from targets of
intrinsic value to their own organisational development. Correct
identification of the target at its execution is the sole purpose of the
espionage operation.
Broad areas of espionage targeting expertise include:

+ Natural resources, strategic production identification and assessment
(food, energy, materials).

	Agents are usually found among bureaucrats who administer these
	resources in their own countries.

+ Popular sentiment towards domestic and foreign policies
(popular, middle class, elites):

	Agents often recruited from field journalistic crews,
	exchange postgraduate students and sociology researchers.

+ Strategic economic strengths
(production, research, manufacture, infrastructure):

	Agents recruited from science and technology academia, commercial
	enterprises, and more rarely from among military technologists.

+ Military capability intelligence
(offensive, defensive, manoeuvre, naval, air, space):

	Agents are trained by special military espionage education
	facilities,	and posted to an area of operation with covert
	identities to minimize prosecution.

+ Counterintelligence Operations

	Specifically targeting opponents intelligence services themselves,
	such as breaching confidentiality of communications, and recruiting
	defectors or moles



METHODS AND TERMINOLOGY
-----------------------
While news media may speak of "spy satellites" and the like, espionage
is not a synonym for all intelligence functions. It is a specific form
of human source intelligence (HUMINT).

Codebreaking (cryptanalysis or COMINT), aircraft or satellite
photography (IMINT) and research in open publications (OSINT) are all
intelligence gathering disciplines, but none of them are espionage.

Many HUMINT activities, such as prisoner interrogation, reports from
military reconnaissance patrols and from diplomats, etc., are not
espionage.

Unlike other forms of intelligence collection disciplines, espionage
usually involves accessing the place where the desired information is
stored, or accessing the people who know the information and will
divulge it through some kind of subterfuge.

There are exceptions to physical meetings, such as the Oslo Report, or
the insistence of Robert Hanssen in never meeting the people who bought
his information.



ORGANIZATION
------------
A spy is a person employed to obtain such secrets. Within the United
States Intelligence Community, "asset" is a more common usage.

A case officer, who may have diplomatic status (i.e. official cover or
non-official cover), supports and directs the human collector.

Cutouts are couriers who do not know the agent or case officer, but
transfer messages.

A safe house is a refuge for spies. In larger networks the organization
can be complex with many methods to avoid detection, including
clandestine cell systems. Often the players have never met.

Case officers are stationed in foreign countries to recruit and to
supervise intelligence agents, who in turn spy on targets in their
countries where they are assigned.

A spy need not be a citizen of the target country—hence does not
automatically commit treason when operating within it.

While the more common practice is to recruit a person already trusted
with access to sensitive information, sometimes a person with a
well-prepared synthetic identity, called a Legend in tradecraft, may
attempt to infiltrate a target organization.

These agents can be moles (who are recruited before they get access to
secrets), defectors (who are recruited after they get access to secrets
and leave their country) or defectors in place (who get access but do
not leave).

Spies may also be used to spread disinformation in the organization in
which they are planted, such as giving false reports about their
country's military movements, or about a competing company's ability to
bring a product to market. Spies may be given other roles that also
require infiltration, such as sabotage.

Many governments routinely spy on their allies as well as their
enemies, although they typically maintain a policy of not commenting on
this. Governments also employ private companies to collect information
on their behalf such as SCG International Risk and others.

Communications both are necessary to espionage and clandestine
operations, and also a great vulnerability when the adversary has
sophisticated SIGINT detection and interception capability. Agents must
also transfer money securely.



ASSETS
------
In espionage jargon, an agent refers to the person who does the spying;
a citizen of one country who is recruited by a second country to spy on
or work against his own country or a third country.

In popular usage, this term is often erroneously applied to a member of
an intelligence service who recruits and handles agents; in espionage
such a person is referred to as an intelligence officer, intelligence
operative or case officer.

There are several types of agent in use today. Double agent,
"is a person who engages in clandestine activity for two intelligence
or security services (or more in joint operations), who provides
information about one or about each to the other, and who wittingly
withholds significant information from one on the instructions of the
other or is unwittingly manipulated by one so that significant facts are
withheld from the adversary.

Peddlers, fabricators, and others who work for themselves rather than a
service are not double agents because they are not agents.

The fact that doubles have an agent relationship with both sides
distinguishes them from penetrations, who normally are placed with the
target service in a staff or officer capacity."

Re-doubled agent, an agent who gets caught as a double agent and is
forced to mislead the foreign intelligence service.

Unwitting double agent, an agent who offers or is forced to recruit as
a double or re-doubled agent and in the process is recruited by either a
third party intelligence service or his own government without the
knowledge of the intended target intelligence service or the agent. This
can be useful in capturing important information from an agent that is
attempting to seek allegiance with another country.

The double agent usually has knowledge of both intelligence services and
can identify operational techniques of both, thus making third party
recruitment difficult or impossible. The knowledge of operational
techniques can also affect the relationship between the Operations
Officer (or case officer) and the agent if the case is transferred by an
Operational Targeting Officer to a new Operations Officer, leaving the
new officer vulnerable to attack. This type of transfer may occur when
an officer has completed his term of service or when his cover is blown.

Triple agent, an agent that is working for three intelligence services.

Intelligence agent: Provides access to sensitive information through the
use of special privileges. If used in corporate intelligence gathering,
this may include gathering information of a corporate business venture
or stock portfolio.

Access agent: Provides access to other potential agents by providing
profiling information that can help lead to recruitment into an
intelligence service.

Agent of influence: Someone who may provide political influence in an
area of interest or may even provide publications needed to further an
intelligence service agenda. I.e. The use of the media to print a story
to mislead a foreign service into action, exposing their operations
while under surveillance.

Agent provocateur: This type of agent instigates trouble, or may provide
information to gather as many people as possible into one location for
an arrest.

Facilities agent: A facilities agent may provide access to buildings
such as garages or offices used for staging operations, resupply, etc.

Principal agent: This agent functions as a handler for an established
network of agents usually Blue Chip.

Confusion agent: May provide misleading information to an enemy
intelligence service or attempt to discredit the operations of the
target in an operation.

Sleeper agent: A sleeper agent is a person who is recruited to an
intelligence service to wake up and perform a specific set of tasks or
functions while living under cover in an area of interest. This type of
agent is not the same as a deep cover operative, who continually
contacts a case officer to file intelligence reports.
A sleeper agent is not in contact with anyone until activated.

Illegal agent: This is a person who is living in another country under
false credentials that does not report to a local station. A non
official cover operative is a type of cover used by an intelligence
operative and can be dubbed an "Illegal" when working in another country
without diplomatic protection.



LAW
---
Espionage is a crime under the legal code of many nations. The risks of
espionage vary. A spy breaking the host country's laws may be deported,
imprisoned, or even executed. A spy breaking his/her own country's laws
can be imprisoned for espionage or/and treason, or even executed, as the
Rosenbergs were.

For example, when Aldrich Ames handed a stack of dossiers of CIA agents
in the Eastern Bloc to his KGB-officer "handler", the KGB "rolled up"
several networks, and at least ten people were secretly shot. When Ames
was arrested by the FBI, he faced life in prison; his contact, who had
diplomatic immunity, was declared persona non grata and taken to the
airport. Ames's wife was threatened with life imprisonment if her
husband did not cooperate; he did, and she was given a five-year
sentence.

Hugh Francis Redmond, a CIA officer in China, spent nineteen years in a
Chinese prison for espionage—and died there—as he was operating
without diplomatic cover and immunity.

In United States law, treason, espionage, and spying are separate
crimes. Treason and espionage have graduated punishment levels; death is
a mandatory sentence for spying during wartime under certain
circumstances.

The United States in World War I passed the Espionage Act of 1917. Over
the years many spies, such as the Soble spy ring, Robert Lee Johnson,
the Rosenberg ring, Aldrich Hazen Ames, Robert Philip Hanssen, Jonathan
Pollard, John Anthony Walker, James Hall III, and others have been
prosecuted under this law.



------------------------------------------------------------------------
	GAME ELEMENTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SAFEHOUSES
----------
A safe house is, in a generic sense, a secret place suitable to hide
persons from the law, hostile actors or actions, or from retribution,
threats or perceived danger.

The term is not strictly limited to houses, although many intelligence
services use rural houses for extended functions such as debriefing
defectors.

In a city, a safehouse may be an apartment or house that is not known to
be associated with an intelligence service. Another usage refers to
mailing addresses (postal and electronic) and telephone numbers, to
which messages can be sent with a reasonable chance of not coming into
the awareness of counter-intelligence.


RESIDENT SPIES
--------------
In the former U.S.S.R. and Russian nomenclature, there are two types of
resident spies: legal'nye rezidenty (legal resident spy) and nelegal'nye
rezidenty (illegal resident spy). In U.S. parlance the same distinction
is between official cover and non-official cover.

A legal resident spy operates in a foreign country under official cover
(e.g. from his country's embassy). He is an official member of the
consular staff, such as a commercial, cultural or military attaché.
Thus he has diplomatic immunity from prosecution and cannot be arrested
by the host country if suspected of espionage. The most the host country
can do is send him back to his home country as persona non grata.

An illegal resident spy operates under a non-official cover; thus, he
cannot claim immunity from prosecution when arrested. He may operate
under a false name and has documents making him out to be an actual
national or from a different country to that which he is spying for.



COMPARISON OF ILLEGAL AND LEGAL RESIDENT SPIES
----------------------------------------------
The advantages and disadvantages of legal resident spies mostly mirror
the disadvantages and advantages of illegal resident spies. A legal
resident spy has the advantage of diplomatic status, but the
disadvantage of being a known foreigner to the host country and one of
just a few official diplomatic staff, whose intelligence status is thus
easy for counterintelligence agencies to discern; whereas an illegal
resident spy has the advantage of being unknown as a foreigner to the
host country and one amongst millions of the country's ordinary
citizens, but the disadvantage of not having diplomatic immunity to fall
back upon. A legal resident spy has opportunities to meet high-level
personnel of the host country as part of his/her "official" business,
whereas an illegal resident spy does not. But, conversely, illegal
resident spies have easier access to a wide range of potential sources
who would be put off by having to approach and deal with an openly
foreign official, and indeed need not even reveal to those people what
country he/she actually works for.

Furthermore: An illegal resident spy can stay in the host country when
diplomatic relations break down, whereas legal resident spies are forced
to leave with the diplomatic mission. But a legal resident spy is easier
to pay, since his/her salary can be openly incorporated into the
diplomatic payroll, whereas making arrangements to pay illegal resident
spies can be difficult, sometimes involving ruses, more expensive and
complex to administer than paying a diplomatic official would be, such
as paying a host country organization or corporation to allow the
illegal resident spy to pose as a member of its staff and be nominally
paid by that organization/corporation. A legal resident spy has full and
aboveboard access to embassy facilities, for secure communications,
meetings, and other services; whereas an illegal resident spy has little
to no access to such facilities, and communications arrangements are
thus more difficult and time consuming. An illegal resident spy will
usually have a falsified biography; whereas a legal resident spy may
suffer from having an official biography, documenting his/her diplomatic
career and providing useful clues to counterintelligence services about
his/her intelligence activities and connections.




------------------------------------------------------------------------
	SAMPLE GAMEPLAY
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cada país tiene instituciones, representadas como edificios, que producen
información 


Each country has institutions,represented as buildings, that produce
secret information represented generically as documents.

The goal is to steal secrets from rival countries and prevent them from
stealing our own documents.

A secret, in order to be considered acquired by a country, must reach
its intelligence agency building.

Certain institutions produce information. Once produced this information
if available in the institution and to the building staff

Documents can be:
	taken/carried/given by any person
	copied/microfilmed (if necesary tools are available)
	destroyed,
	hidden,
	bought/sold (from/to any person)


SCIENTIST
theory/discover (lab)

ENGINEER
develop application (lab)
produce (factory)



ACCESS LEVEL
------------
Las instituciones producen información, de un modo u otro útil a los
paises rivales, por lo que es conveniente asegurarla. 
Las instituciones y edificios pueden tener un máximo de 4 access levels
(AL) y security layers (SL) numerados de 0 a 3.

Los access levels representan el concepto de compartimentación dentro de
una organización. Además restringe el acceso a los objetos y personas
que pudiera haber en un edificio.

Los security layers consisten en personal de seguridad, sistemas y
barreras físicas o una combinación de todas estas para restringir el
acceso a su nivel correspondiente. Además incluyen los requisitos de
accesso a cada nivel. Ej: door->key, guard->authorization, keypad->code.

Una persona que entra ilegalmente a un edificio porque superó los 
security layers o es meramente un visitante tiene acceso a los objetos y
personas que hubiera en el nivel donde está y los inferiores, pero no a
la información que maneja una persona que trabaja o habita regularmente
en el edificio.

Los edificios varían en la cantidad de niveles de acceso que tienen.

	A HOUSE
	+-------------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 0           |
	|OWNER|TENANT             |
	|			              |
	+-------------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 0 (a door)|
	|door->key                |
	+-------------------------+
	
	
	A COMMERCE
	+---------------------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 2                   |
	|OWNER|MANAGER                    |
	|                                 |
	+---------------------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 1                 |
	+---------------------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 1                   |
	|LOW LEVEL STAFF                  |
	|                                 |
	+---------------------------------+	
	|SECURITY LAYER 0 (a door|a guard)|
	+---------------------------------+
	
	
	AN ILLEGAL BUSSINES BEHIND A LEGAL ONE
	+-------------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 2           |
	|OWNER|MANAGER            |
	|                         |
	+-------------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 2         |
	|door->key                |
	+-------------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 1           |
	|ILLEGAL STAFF            |
	|	                      |
	+-------------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 1         |
	|door->key                |
	+-------------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 0           |
	|LEGAL STAFF              |
	|	                      |
	+-------------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 0         |
	|door->key                |
	+-------------------------+
	
	
Institutions produce information, most of it sensitive in one way or
another and worth protecting.

Institutions can have at most 4 access levels and security layers from 0
to 3. Lower levels have access to less and more public information than
higher levels.
Security layers consist on security personnel, systems and physical
barriers or a combination of them to enforce separation by restricting
access to his correspondent level.
In order for an unauthorized person to gain access to a level, he/she
must pass its security layer i.e. a key or code locked door or a
security guard requiring credentials.
Building in general also has access levels, only less.

	
    
    
    
    
    
    
    


	
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    


Some may have less. For example:
A house only have level 0,
On the other hand a commerce
have 3 levels to represent public


	
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    


SCIENTIST
---------
Karl is a scientist who works in the development of a new type of
communication device. He also teach at university.
Karl has AL2 at both buildings. His routine may be something like this:

	                +----+
           +------->|HOME|
           |        +--+-+
        +--+---+       |
        |DINER |       |
        |CAFE  |       v
        |PARK  |    +------+
        |SHOP  |    |WORK  |
        |BAR   |    |AT LAB|
        |CINEMA|    +--+---+
        +------+       |
           ^           |
           |           v
           |        +------+
           |        |DINER |
           |        |CAFE  |
           |        |PARK  |
    +------+---+    |SHOP  |
    |WORK AT   |<---+BAR   |
    |UNIVERSITY|    |CINEMA|
    +----------+    +------+
	
Karl's work at the lab give him access to the information produced
there.

	LAB
	+---------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 3       |
	|                     |
	|DIRECTOR             |
	|Any	              |
	+---------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 3     |
	|bodyguards->X        |   
    |guard->id            |
    |door->key            | 
	+---------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 2       |
	|                     |
	|HEAD OF STAFF        |
	|Scientist            |
	+---------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 2     |
	|guard->id            |
    |door->keycode        |
	+---------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 1       |  		
	|                     |
	|HIGH LEVEL STAFF     |
	|Scientists           |
	+---------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 1     |
	|guard->id            |
	|door->key            | 
	+---------------------+
	|ACCESS LEVEL 0       |
	|                     |
	|LOW LEVEL STAFF      |
	|technicians          | 
	|mainteance           |
	+---------------------+
	|SECURITY LAYER 0     |    
	|guard->id            |
	|door->key            |
    +---------------------+
	
	
	
Institutions occupy themselves over a particular activity and produces
information related to that area.

Universities
Factories
Government buildings

Embassies
Intelligence Agency




Each player choose to work for the intelligence agency of one of the
following countries:

+ UNITED STATES
	CIA (Central Intelligence Agency)
+ URSS
	KGB (Комит́ет госуд́арственной безоп́асност)
+ GERMANY
	STASI (Staatssicherheit)
+ UNITED KINGDOM
	MI6 (Military Intelligence, Section 6)
+ FRANCE
	SDECE (Service de Documentation Extérieure et de Contre-Espionnage)

The player starts (and problably remains) somewhere in the middle of the
command chain as Station Chief in Berlin or head of an hypotetical
intelligence section in the year 1950.





------------------------------------------------------------------------
	GLOSARY
------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACTION OFFICER - The case officer designated to perform an operational
act during a clandestine operation, especially in hostile territory.

AGENT - A person, usually a foreign national, who has been recruited by
a staff case officer from an intelligence service to perform clandestine
missions.

AGENT-IN-PLACE - An agent serving as a penetration into an intelligence
target who has been recruited or has volunteered to stay in place.

AMBUSH - The surprise capture and arrest of a case officer in an act of
espionage by an opposing counterintelligence or security service.

(THE) APPENDIX - The tower in Lubyanka that houses the KGB's most
sensitive departments. It is a nine-story tower that connects the old
and new wings of the building and overlooks an inner courtyard.

ASSET - A clandestine source or method, usually an agent.

BAILOUT POINT - The point, during a vehicular run under surveillance, at
which the action officer riding as a passenger is planning to bail out
of the car in order to elude surveillance.

BANG AND BURN - Demolition and sabotage operations.

BIGOT- list A list of the names of all persons who are privy to the
plans for a sensitive intelligence operation; it dates back to World War
II when Allied orders for officers were stamped TO GIB for those being
sent to Gibraltar for preparations for the invasion of North Africa;
later their orders were stamped BIG OT (TO GIB backwards) when they were
sent back to begin planning Operation Overlord, the invasion of
Normandy.

BLACK BAG JOB - A surreptitious entry operation usually conducted by the
FBI against a domestically located foreign intelligence target.

BLACK OPERATIONS - Clandestine or covert operations not attributable to
the organization carrying them out.

BONA FIDES - An operative's true identity, affiliation, or intentions.

BRIDGE AGENT - An agent who acts as a courier or go-between from a case
officer to an agent in a denied area.

BRIEF ENCOUNTER - Any brief physical contact between a case officer and
an agent under threat of surveillance.

BRUSH PASS - A brief encounter where something is passed between a case
officer and an agent.

BUMPER-LOCK - A harassing move in which vehicular surveillance follows
the target officer so closely that the surveilling car's front bumper is
 almost locked to the rear bumper of the target car.

BURNED - When a case officer or agent is compromised, or a surveillant
has been made by a target, usually because they make eye contact.

BUST-OUT - A leak of electronic communications from a secure enclosure
before they are encrypted by the code machine.

CAM-CAR - A vehicle equipped with a concealed camera used for
clandestine casing and surveillance operations.

(THE) CAMP (ALSO CAMP SWAMPY) - A nickname for the CIA's secret domestic
training base.

CASE OFFICER - An operations officer serving as an official staffer of
an intelligence service.

CASUALS - Casual observers to a surveillance exercise; nonparticipants
visible in the area.

(THE) CELLAR - The room in the cellar of Lubyanka Prison where Russian
intelligence executed traitors prior to WWII.

(THE) CENTER - Russian intelligence headquarters in Moscow.

CHEKA - Russian secret police founded in 1917 to serve the Bolshevik
Party; one of the many forerunners of the KGB.

CHOKADAR - A gatekeeper commonly used in the Asian Subcontinent for
guarding the entrances to walled compounds.

CHOKEPOINT - A narrow passage-such as a bridge, tunnel, or Metro
station-used as a surveillance or countersurveillance tool for
channeling the opposing force or monitoring their passage.

CIA - The Central Intelligence Agency of the United States, formed in
1947 to conduct foreign intelligence collection, covert action, and
counterintelligence operations abroad. Also responsible for providing
finished intelligence to U.S. policymakers.

CID - The Clandestine Imaging Division of the Office of Technical
Service of the CIA. Responsible for providing technical support to
clandestine agent operations in the form of photography, secret writing,
and video surveillance.

(THE) CITADEL - A supersecret department in U.S. intelligence
responsible for collecting foreign signals and communications
intelligence.

CLANDESTINE operation - An intelligence operation designed to remain
secret as long as possible.

CLANDESTINE SERVICE - The operational arm of the CIA responsible for
classic espionage operations, usually with human assets. Also known as
the Directorate of Operations (DO) and formerly the Directorate of Plans
(DP).

CLOAK - A sensitive disguise and deception illusionary technique first
deployed by the CIA in Moscow during the mid-1970s.

CODE - A system used to obscure a message by use of a cipher, mark,
symbol, sound, innocuous verse, or piece of music. ("Two lanterns in the
church tower . . .")

COMINT - Communications intelligence, usually gathered by technical
interception and code breaking, but also by use of human agents and
surreptitious entry.

COMMO, COMMUNICATIONS - The various forms of secure electronic and
nonelectronic communications used in clandestine operations.

COMMO PLAN - The various secret communications methods employed with a
particular agent.

COMPARTMENTING: vertical; lateral; double - The various ways that
information is held to only those who "have-a-need-to-know" in an
organization. Vertical denies information up or down the chain of
command, and lateral denies information from peer groups. Double is
spoofing the original group who held the information into believing the
operation has ended when it has simply moved to a new compartment.

COMPROMISED - When an operation, asset, or agent is uncovered and cannot
remain secret.

CONCEALMENT DEVICE - Any one of a variety of innocuous devices used to
secretly store and transport materials relating to an operation.

CONTROL - In a surveillance exercise, the one directing the team
remotely, usually by electronic communications.

CONTROLLER - Often used interchangeably with handler, but usually means
a hostile force is involved-that is, the agent has come under control of
the opposition.

COVER STOP - A stop made while under surveillance that provides an
ostensibly innocent reason for a trip.

COVERT ACTION OPERATION (CA) - An operation kept secret for only a
finite period of time, or an operation whose real source remains secret
because the operation is attributed to another source.

CRYPTONYM - Code name; crypt or crypto for short, always capitalized. GT
and CK prefixes to code names are used to identify the nature of the
clandestine source. These two prefixes were both "diagraph" identifiers
for the Soviet and East European program during this period. The
diagraph is used in front of the cryptonym of the source as a more
formal way of referring to the subject, not unlike putting "Mr." in
front of "Smallwood."

CUTOUT - A mechanism or person that acts as a compartment between the
members of an operation but which allows them to pass material or
messages securely.

DAGGER - A sophisticated disguise first used in the Soviet Union in the
1970s.

DANGLE OPERATION - An operation in which an enticing intelligence target
is dangled in front of an opposition service in hopes they will think
him or her a bona fide recruit. The dangle is really a double agent.

DCI - The Director of Central Intelligence.

DDO - The Deputy Director of Operations of the CIA, and head of all
HUMINT operations; formerly the DDP.

DDP - The Deputy Director of Plans (see DDO).

DEAD DROP - A secret location where materials can be left in concealment
for another party to retrieve. This eliminates the need for direct
contact in hostile situations.